Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Woodruff: THE NATIONAL RIFLE
ASSOCIATION CALLED FOR ARMING
AND TRAINING SECURITY OFFICERS
IN EVERY U.S. SCHOOL.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Warner: AND I'M MARGARET
WARNER.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, WE HAVE
BACK-TO-BACK INTERVIEWS WITH THE
AUTHOR OF THE N.R.A. PROPOSAL
AND A GUN CONTROL ADVOCATE.
>> Woodruff: THEN, AS NORTH
KOREA PROMISES TO RESTART ITS
PLUTONIUM REACTOR, WE EXAMINE
THE COMMUNIST NATION'S NUCLEAR
CAPABILITIES.
>> Warner: WE TALK TO FORMER
MAINE SENATOR OLYMPIA SNOWE
ABOUT THE FUTURE OF THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY AND THE
PARTISAN GRIDLOCK THAT PROMPTED
HER TO RETIRE FROM CONGRESS.
>> Woodruff: WE UPDATE THE
ATLANTA SCHOOL CHEATING SCANDAL,
AS INDICTED EDUCATORS BEGIN
TURNING THEMSELVES IN AT THE
COUNTY JAIL.
>> Warner: AND POET GERALD STERN
REFLECTS ON HIS WORKING CLASS
UPBRINGING AND 70 YEARS OF
WRITING VERSE IN A CONVERSATION
WITH JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> MAJOR FUNDING FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR HAS BEEN PROVIDED BY:
MOVING OUR ECONOMY FOR 160
YEARS.
BNSF, THE ENGINE THAT CONNECTS
US.
>> AND BY BP.
>> AND BY THE BILL AND MELINDA
GATES FOUNDATION.
DEDICATED TO THE IDEA THAT ALL
PEOPLE DESERVE THE CHANCE TO
LIVE A HEALTHY, PRODUCTIVE LIFE.
>> AND WITH THE ONGOING SUPPORT
OF THESE INSTITUTIONS AND
FOUNDATIONS.
AND...
>> THIS PROGRAM WAS MADE
POSSIBLE BY THE CORPORATION FOR
PUBLIC BROADCASTING.
AND BY CONTRIBUTIONS TO YOUR PBS
STATION FROM VIEWERS LIKE YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: WITH CONGRESS
POISED TO TAKE UP GUN CONTROL
LEGISLATION IN THE COMING DAYS,
THE NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION
BATTLED BACK TODAY AS IT TRIED
TO SHIFT ATTENTION TO A
DIFFERENT PROPOSAL.
IT CALLS FOR ARMING TRAINED
PERSONNEL IN EVERY PUBLIC U.S.
SCHOOL.
THE N.R.A. TURNED A FORMER
REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN ASA
HUTCHINSON TO CHAIR WHAT IT
CALLS THE NATIONAL SCHOOL SHIELD
TASK FORCE.
HE LAID OUT THE CENTER PIECE OF
ITS 225-PAGE STUDY IN
WASHINGTON.
>> IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN
MAKING OUR SCHOOLS SAFER AND TO
SAVE CHILDREN'S LIVES, LOOK AT
THESE RECOMMENDATIONS SERIOUSLY,
AND THIS... THE PRESENCE OF AN
ARMED SECURITY IN SCHOOLS IS A
LAYER THAT IS JUST AS IMPORTANT
AS THE MENTAL HEALTH COMPONENT.
>> Woodruff: AIMED AT REDUCING
VIETENT CRIMES ON SCHOOL GROUNDS
IT IS THE LATEST PUSH IN THE
GUN-CONTROL DEBATE.
IT INCLUDES PROPOSALS FOR
REVISED STATE LAWS TO ALLOW
TRAINED PERSONNEL TO CARRY
FIREARMS ON SCHOOL GROUNDS,
TRAINING FOR DESIGNATED SCHOOL
PERSONNEL TO HANDLE ACTIVE
SHOOTING INCIDENTS, AND MENTAL
HEALTH PILOT PROGRAMS TO REDUCE
BULLYING AND IDENTIFY POTENTIAL
THREATS.
THIS REVIEW COMES AS CONGRESS
CONTINUES TO PURSUE GUN-CONTROL
LEGISLATION.
THE REPUBLICAN-LED HOUSE HAS NOT
YET TAKEN UP BILLS IN THE ALMOST
TWO MONTHS SINCE PRESIDENT OBAMA
MADE THIS ISSUE A PRIORITY AT
HIS STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS.
BUT TODAY MARYLAND DEMOCRAT
ELIJAH CUMMINGS HIGHLIGHTED ONE
AREA WHERE HE SAID CONGRESS
SHOULD ACT.
>> MOST AMERICANS ALREADY THINK
GUN TRAFFICKING IS A FEDERAL
CRIME.
I HAVE NEWS FOR YOU.
IT'S NOT.
THEY HAVE NO IDEA THAT THERE IS
NO FEDERAL LAW TARGETING FIREARM
TRAFFICKERS WHO COMMONLY USE
STRAW PURCHASERS TO BUY GUNS FOR
CONVICTED FELONS AND OTHER
DANGEROUS CRIMINALS WHO CANNOT
LEGALLY BUY GUNS ON THEIR OWN.
>> Woodruff: SCRUTINY OF SUCH
PURCHASES HAS RENEWED CALLS FOR
UNIVERSAL BACKGROUND CHECKS.
RECENT POLLING SHOWS NEARLY 9 IN
10 AMERICANS SUPPORT NEAR
UNIVERSAL BACKGROUND CHECKS ON
ALL GUN PURCHASES.
CALLS FOR EXPANSION OF
BACKGROUND CHECKS AND NEW
PENALTIES FOR GUN TRAFFICKING
HAS STYMIED ACTION IN THE SENA
SENATE.
NEW LEGISLATION IS EXPECTED ON
THE FLOOR WHEN SENATORS RETURN
FROM RECESS NEXT WEEK.
IT WON'T INCLUDE BANS ON ASSAULT
WEAPONS AND ON HIGH CAPACITY
AMMUNITION MAGAZINES.
AND FIVE REPUBLICAN SENATORS,
INCLUDING FLORIDA'S MARCO RUBIO
HAD VOWED TO FILIBUSTER ANY NEW
GUN RESTRICTION.
STILL, SOME STATE LEGISLATURES
HAVE ALREADY TAKEN ACTION ON
THEIR OWN.
AFTER WEEKS OF NEGOTIATION,
CONNECTICUT LEGISLATORS AGREED
ON A PACKAGE YESTERDAY.
AMONG THE MOST FAR-REACHING IN
THE COUNTRY.
INCLUDING UNIVERSAL BACKGROUND
CHECKS FOR ALL GUN SALES AND
BANS ON NEW HIGH-CAPACITY
AMMUNITION MAGAZINES.
YESTERDAY LEADERS FROM BOTH
PARTIES HAILED THE AGREEMENT.
>> IT'S ALSO CRITICAL THAT WE
SEND A MESSAGE TO WASHINGTON AND
TO THE REST OF THIS COUNTRY THAT
THIS IS THE WAY TO GET THIS JOB
DONE.
>> AT THE END OF THE DAY, I
THINK IT'S A PACKAGE THAT A
MAJORITY OF PEOPLE IN
CONNECTICUT WILL BE PROUD WHEN
WE VOTE ON WEDNESDAY.
>> Woodruff: THE BILL IS
EXPECTED TO PASS BOTH HOUSES OF
THE STATE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
TOMORROW.
THE PRESIDENT RETURNS TO
COLORADO TOMORROW TO PRESS HIS
GUN-CONTROL PROPOSALS.
WE GET TWO VIEWS NOW ON THE
N.R.A.'S PLAN AND WHERE IT FITS
INTO THE BIGGER DEBATE RIGHT
NOW.
FIRST, ASA HUTCHINSON, WHOM WE
HEARD EARLIER AND WAS THE LEAD
AUTHOR OF TODAY'S PROPOSAL ON
SCHOOL SAFETY.
HE'S NOT AN N.R.A. EMPLOYEE, BUT
IS CONSULTING WITH THE GROUP ON
THIS ISSUE.
I SPOKE WITH HIM EARLIER.
FORMER CONGRESSMAN, ASA
HUTCHINSON, WELCOME TO THE
NEWSHOUR.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
GOOD TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Woodruff: WE HEARD WHAT YOU
SAID TODAY AT THE NEWS
CONFERENCE.
WHY ARE MORE GUNS THE ANSWER TO
PREVENTING VIOLENCE IN SCHOOLS?
>> WELL, WHENEVER THERE'S A
TRAGIC INCIDENT IN A SCHOOL, THE
FIRST PERSON WHO IS CALLED AND
THE SHOOTING STOPS WHENEVER A
POLICE OFFICER OR AN ARMED GUARD
ARRIVES.
THAT'S WHEN THE SHOOTING AND THE
DEATH STOPS.
SO THE QUICKER THE RESPONSE, THE
MORE LIVES YOU SAVE AND THE BEST
RESPONSE CAN BE WHEN THERE'S A
SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICER IN THE
SCHOOL OR SOME OTHER ARMED
PERSONNEL.
THAT'S THE REASON THAT THAT'S
ONE OF THE SOLUTIONS.
THERE'S MANY MORE PARTS TO
SCHOOL SAFETY, BUT THAT IS AN
IMPORTANT PART OF IT.
>> Woodruff: BUT IF SOMEONE IS
DETERMINED TO COME IN TO A
SCHOOL AND HARM PEOPLE, WHY
WOULDN'T THEY BE ABLE TO
OVERPOWER ONE OR TWO INDIVIDUALS
WHO ARE TRAINED?
>> WELL, IF SOMEONE TRIED TO
COME IN TO SCHOOL, FIRST OF ALL
HOPEFULLY THE ACCESS CONTROLS
THAT WE RECOMMEND, THE PERIMETER
SECURITY, THE SURVEILLANCE
CAMERAS, ALL OF THESE WILL COME
INTO PLAY TO DELAY THAT ACTIVITY
OR TO PREVENT IT.
BUT, SURE, ANY GOOD BAD GUY CAN
GO IN AND TRY TO BREAK THE
SYSTEMS DOWN AND GET THROUGH.
AND THEN IT'S A RESPONSE
CAPABILITY.
AND THE BEST RESPONSE IS
SOMEBODY WHO IS CLOSE AND QUICK.
YOU'RE EITHER GOING TO CALL THE
POLICE TO COME 15 MINUTES LATER
OR YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE SOMEONE
THERE ON SITE.
AND THIS IS NOT AN UNUSUAL
PROPOSAL.
WE'VE HAD ARMED GUARDS IN THE
SCHOOLS SINCE BILL CLINTON
RECOMMENDED IT WHILE HE WAS
PRESIDENT.
WE JUST HAVEN'T HAD SUFFICIENT.
>> Woodruff: LET ME READ YOU A
COMMENT FROM THE PERSON, THE
WOMAN WHO FOUNDED AND LED THE
AND STILL LEADS THE CHILDREN'S
DEFENSE FUND.
SHE SAID, QUOTE, THERE'S NO
EVIDENCE THAT ARMED GUARDS OR
POLICE OFFICERS IN SCHOOLS MAKE
CHILDREN SAFER.
SHE SAID COLUMBINE HIGH SCHOOL
HAD AN ARMED GUARD.
VIRGINIA TECH HAD A FULL CAMPUS
POLICE FORCE.
>> WELL THAT'S WHY IT'S NOT JUST
ONE SOLUTION.
THERE'S MANY SOLUTIONS HERE.
BUT, FOR EXAMPLE, THE TRAINING
HAS TOTALLY CHANGED SINCE
COLUMBINE.
SO WE SEE WHAT HAPPENED THERE.
IMPROVEMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE.
BUT, FOR EXAMPLE, WHO TALKS
ABOUT THE HIGH SCHOOL INCIDENT
IN 1997 WHENEVER AN ASSISTANT
PRINCIPAL AFTER HAVING TWO
STUDENTS SHOT GOES OUT IN HIS
TRUCK TO RETRIEVE HIS .45
SEMIAUTOMATIC, GOES BACK IN AND
DISARMS THE ASSAILANT.
SO THAT INDICATES THAT THERE IS
EVIDENCE THAT YOU CAN STOP AN
ASSAILANT WHENEVER YOU HAVE
ARMED PROTECTION.
>> Woodruff: YOU MENTION THAT
EXAMPLE EARLIER TODAY.
CONGRESSMAN HUTCHINSON, I ALSO
WANT TO QUOTE WHAT THE BRADY
CAMPAIGN FOUNDED IN THE NAME OF
JIM BRADY, OF COURSE, WHO WAS
TERRIBLY WOUNDED THE DAY
PRESIDENT REAGAN WAS SHOT BACK
IN 1981.
THE BRADY CAMPAIGN SAID, THIS IS
AN EFFORT THAT IS MISSING THE
POINT BECAUSE WHAT THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE WANT, THEY ARE SAYING, IS
A COMPREHENSIVE, BROAD-BASED
APPROACH TO REDUCE GUN VIOLENCE.
IN OTHER WORDS, MORE THAN JUST
SOMETHING THAT IS FOCUSED ON
ADDING ARMED GUARDS IN SCHOOLS.
>> I WOULD AGREE WITH PART OF
IT.
WHAT WE NEED IS A COMPREHENSIVE
APPROACH TO SCHOOL SAFETY.
AND YOU CAN PASS ALL THE LAWS
YOU WANT IN WASHINGTON IN TERMS
OF RESTRICTING GUNS.
BAD GUYS ARE STILL GOING TO HAVE
ACCESS TO GUNS.
THEY'RE STILL GOING TO BE A
DANGER TO THE SCHOOL.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING
THERE'S NO PLACE FOR ANY
ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON GUNS
IN THIS COUNTRY?
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S GOING TO
SOLVE THE PROBLEM OF LOSS OF
LIFE IN SCHOOLS.
SO IF YOU WANT TO ADDRESS THE
PROBLEM OF SAFETY IN SCHOOLS,
YOU HAVE TO HAVE SECURITY
MEASURES IN PLACE.
THAT'S WHAT SCHOOLS ALL ACROSS
THIS COUNTRY ARE DOING AS WE
SPEAK.
>> Woodruff: LET ME ALSO ASK YOU
ABOUT... AS YOU KNOW, THERE'S A
MEASURE THAT WILL BE BEFORE THE
CONGRESS IN THE WEEKS TO COME.
UNIVERSAL BACKGROUND CHECKS OR A
VERSION OF BACKGROUND CHECKS.
THE POLLS ARE ALL SHOWING NOW
THAT THE VAST MAJORITY OF
AMERICANS, 90% OF AMERICANS,
THINK THAT THAT'S AN APPROPRIATE
WAY TO GO, TO FIND OUT WHO IS
BUYING A GUN, MAKE SURE THEY
DON'T HAVE SOME PROBLEM IN THEIR
HISTORY BEFORE THEY'RE ALLOWED
TO BUY A GUN.
WHAT'S WRONG WITH THAT?
>> WELL, I AGREE THAT CRIMINALS
SHOULD NOT HAVE GUNS, CONVICTED
FELONS AND PEOPLE WHO BEEN AJUDE
ICTED WITH MENTAL PROBLEMS
SHOULD NOT HAVE ACCESS TO THEM.
WE.
>> Woodruff: AJUDE ICTED.
SO SOMEONE WHO IS BEING TREATED
FOR A PSYCHOLOGICAL PROBLEM
WOULDN'T ALREADY BE IN THE
SYSTEM, WOULD THEY?
>> I THINK THE MENTAL HEALTH
PROFESSIONALS HAVE SOME CONCERNS
ABOUT WHO IS PUT INTO A DATABASE
SO YOU USUALLY ARTICULATE IT AS
TO THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN AJUDE
ICTED.
OBVIOUSLY THERE'S A THREAT
ASSESSMENT THAT HAS TO BE DONE
OTHERWISE BUT THAT'S A MENTAL
HEALTH ISSUE AS TO WHO IS PUT IN
THE SYSTEM.
BUT THE PROBLEM IS, 23 STATES
ARE NOT PUTTING THAT INFORMATION
INTO THE SYSTEM RIGHT NOW, SO
FIX THE SYSTEM FIRST.
THAT'S THE BEST WAY TO PREVENT
THOSE WHO ARE NOT SUPPOSED TO BE
GETTING WEAPONS, FIREARMS FROM
GETTING THEM.
>> Woodruff: AS A FORMER MEMBER
OF CONGRESS AND AS SOMEONE WHO
WAS AN OFFICIAL AT THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY,
WHERE DO YOU SEE THIS ISSUE
GOING?
DO YOU BELIEVE... I MEAN,
THERE'S A LOT MORE ATTENTION
BEING PAID TO IT.
IT'S CERTAINLY IN THE MEDIA.
THE AMERICAN PUBLIC IS SAYING
THEY WANT SOMETHING DONE.
HOW... WHERE DO YOU SEE IT
HEADED?
>> WELL, MAYOR BLOOMBERG IS
SPENDING TENS OF MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS TO ADVOCATE FOR GUN
CONTROL LEGISLATION.
I WOULD RATHER THAT MONEY BE
SPENT IN SCHOOL SAFETY PROGRAMS.
YOU CAN MAKE A HUGE DIFFERENCE
IN SAFETY ACROSS OUR COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: AND VIOLENCE
OUTSIDE OF SCHOOLS?
>> WHERE WE'RE GOING IN MY
JUDGMENT IS CONGRESS WILL
DEBATE, AS THEY ALWAYS DEBATE,
AND WHAT YOU CAN AGREE UPON IS
SOME REAL MEASURES THAT WE'VE
RECOMMENDED FOR FUNDING, FOR
BETTER COORDINATION, FOR SOME
CHANGES IN LAWS TO PROVIDE FOR
THE SCHOOL SAFETY EQUATION.
THAT'S WHERE I THINK WE CAN
REACH AGREEMENT NOW.
DEBATE.
>> Woodruff: FORMER CONGRESSMAN
ASA HUTCHINSON, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: AND FOR A DIFFERENT
VIEW.
MARK GLAZE IS THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF MAYORS AGAINST
ILLEGAL GUNS, A GROUP OF 900
MAYORS, INCLUDING NEW YORK'S
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG, ADVOCATING
FOR CHANGES TO FEDERAL AND STATE
LAWS.
MARK GLAZE, WELCOME TO THE
NEWSHOUR.
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF THIS
PROPOSAL BY THE GROUP?
IT WAS UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE
N.R.A.
IT WAS LED BY FORMER CONGRESSMAN
HUTCH INSIN.
IT'S A PACKAGE OF PROPOSINGS
THAT INCLUDES ONE THAT WOULD
TRAIN ARMED GUARDS AND IDEALLY
HAVE THEM IN EVERY SCHOOL.
>> IT'S A SOLUTION THAT NOBODY
WANTS WHO ARE KNOWLEDGEABLE ON
THE SUBJECT.
POLICE THINK IT'S A BAD IDEA.
TEACHERS CAME OUT AGAINST IT.
THEY THINK THE ANSWER IS BETTER
BACKGROUND CHECKS AND TOUGHER
GUN LAWS TO KEEP GUNS AWAY FROM
PEOPLE WHO DON'T HAVE THEM SO
THEY DON'T WIND UP IN THE
SCHOOLS.
KILLING 20 KIDS MY SON'S AGE.
IT'S ALTOGETHER TYPICAL.
IT'S LEGITIMATELY THEIR VIEW
THAT AN ARMED SOCIETY IS A SAFE
SOCIETY AND THAT THE ONLY ANSWER
TO A BAD GUY WITH A GUN IS A
GOOD GUY WITH A GUN BUT IRONY OF
THIS IS THAT WE HAVE SO MANY
GUNS IN OUR SOCIETY, AROUND 300
MILLION BECAUSE OF THE N.R.A.
HAS SYSTEMATICALLY WHITTLED AWAY
AT MODEST RESTRICTIONS SO THEY
CAN NOW MAKE THE ARGUMENT
THERE'S SO MANY GUNS OUT OF
THERE YOU'RE NEVER GOING TO GET
THEM OUT OF THE HANDS OF
CRIMINALS.
YOU'D BETTER ARM EVERYBODY.
>> Woodruff: YOU HEARD WHAT HE
WAS SAYING.
AMONG OTHER THINGS HE'S SAYING
IT WOULD SERVE AS A DETERRENT.
IF SOMEONE HAS THE INTENTION OF
GOING INTO A SCHOOL, HARMING
CHILDREN, HARMING ANYONE,
KNOWING SOMEONE IS THERE WITH A
GUN IS MUCH MORE LIKELY TO KEEP
SOMEBODY FROM DOING THAT.
AT LEAST IT WOULD CAUSE THEM TO
THINK TWICE.
>> IT'S POSSIBLE BUT IF YOU LOOK
AT THE MASS SHOOTINGS WE'VE HAD
RECENTLY, THEY'RE ALL YOUNG MEN
WHO ARE DEEPLY TROUBLED.
YOU HAVE TO ASK YOURSELF
WHETHER, YOU KNOW, THE COLUMBINE
SHOOTERS WHO ACTUALLY WENT INTO
A SCHOOL THAT THEY ATTENDED AND
KNEW THERE WERE ARMED GUARDS
THERE, VIRGINIA TECH, A BIG
SECURITY ON THE CAMPUS THERE.
IF PEOPLE ARE AS TROUBLED AS
THEY HAVE TO BE TO DO THE THINGS
THAT, YOU KNOW, MEN HAVE DONE IN
RECENT YEARS, I DON'T KNOW THAT
AN ARMED GUARD IS GOING TO STOP
THEM.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT HIS
ARGUMENT THAT THIS IS AN
IMPORTANT PART OF A PACKAGE THAT
WOULD MAKE SCHOOLS SAFER.
THEY ARE TALKING ABOUT OTHER
STEPS AS WELL.
>> WELL, I THINK THAT HAVING
ARMED GUARDS IN SCHOOLS IS
SOMETHING THAT SCHOOL DISTRICTS
SHOULD HAVE THE CHOICE TO MAKE.
SOME OF THEM DO.
I KNOW SOME OF OUR MAYORS IN
MICHIGAN HAVE HAD OFF-DUTY
POLICE OFFICERS IN THE CLASSROOM
FOR A LONG TIME.
THERE'S A GENERAL SENSE THAT
THERE'S A GREATER SENSE OF
COMFORT HAVING POLICE THERE THAN
PAID SECURITY GUARDS BUT I HAVE
TO POINT OUT ONE LAST IRONY.
THAT HE ASSURED PEOPLE DURING
THE COURSE OF THIS EVENT THAT
THESE SECURITY GUARDS WOULD BE
VETTED AND SAFE BECAUSE THEY
WOULD BE GIVEN BACKGROUND CHECKS
PRESUMABLY TO MAKE SURE THEY ARE
NOT FELONS OR DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
PERPETRATORS OR SERIOUSLY
MENTALLY ILL AND CAN THEREFORE
CARRY A GUN.
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
ABOUT THE OVERALL EFFORT TO PASS
GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION.
WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO THE
MOMENTUM?
AFTER THE SANDY HOOK SHOOTING
BACK IN DECEMBER, THERE WAS A
LOT OF... IT FELT LIKE THERE WAS
MOMOMENTUM TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT
GUNS.
TODAY AS CONGRESS TAKES UP
LEGISLATION WE KNOW THAT AS WE
MENTIONED NO ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN
IS INCLUDE, A BAN OR
RESTRICTIONS ON HIGH-CAPACITY
MAGAZINES ARE NO LONGER
INCLUDED.
WHAT HAPPENED TO THAT MOMENTUM?
>> WELL, I THINK PEOPLE WHO
THOUGHT THIS WOULD BE QUICKER,
EASY, HAVE NOT FOLLOWED THIS
ISSUE AND HAVE NOT REALLY
FOLLOWED THE CONGRESS RECENTLY.
I MEAN CONGRESS RECENTLY TOOK
MORE THAN 500 DAYS TO
REAUTHORIZE THE VIOLENCE AGAINST
WOMEN ACT WHICH IS WHAT IT
SOUNDS LIKE.
IT'S ABOUT HELPING WOMEN AGAINST
WHOM VIOLENCE HAS BEEN
PERPETRATED.
I NEVER THOUGHT THIS WOULD BE
DONE IMMEDIATELY OR VERY EASILY.
I THINK WHAT HAS HAPPENED IS A
LOT OF SENATORS AND HOUSE
MEMBERS ARE STILL KIND OF LIVING
IN A BY-GONE ERA WHEN THE ERA
WAS THE ONLY GAME IN TOWN.
MANY OF THE SENATORS WHO HAVE
NOT COMMITTED THEMSELVES OR HAVE
SAID THEY WILL NOT HAVE ACCEPTED
A LOT OF N.R.A. MONEY AND HAVE
KNOWN FOR A GENERATION THAT
THERE WAS NOT A LOT OF POLITICAL
SUPPORT OR MUCH GRASS ROOTS
ACTIVISM ON OUR SIDE OF THE
LEDGER.
THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
OUR MAYORS AND THE 1.5 MILLION
GRASS ROOTS SUPPORTERS, MANY OF
WHOM CAME TO US AFTER THE
NEWTOWN SHOOTING ARE TRYING TO
CHANGE.
'S GOING TO TAKE SOME TIME.
I DO THINK WE'LL PASS A VERY
GOOD BACKGROUND CHECK BILL.
>> Woodruff: IS THAT NOW THE
FOCUS OF YOUR EFFORTS AND OTHER
GUN-CONTROL GROUPS TO MAINLY GET
BACKGROUND CHECKS?
IS THAT WHAT IT'S COME DOWN TO?
>> WE THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT THAT ASSAULT WEAPONS
AND ALSO HIGH-CAPACITY MAGAZINES
WHICH ARE AFTER ALL WHAT MAKE
MASS SHOOTINGS MASS.
ONE PERSON CAN FIRE FOR AS LONG
AS THEY CAN AS LONG AS THEY HAVE
BULLETS AND THEY'LL HAVE A LOT
OF BULLETS.
BUT WE HAVE ALWAYS SAID THAT THE
BIGGEST SOLUTION, IF YOU HAD TO
CHOOSE JUST ONE IS MAKING SURE
EVERYBODY GETS A BACKGROUND
CHECK BECAUSE, YOU KNOW, WELL
OVER 90% OF THE FIREARMS AS
IFALITIES IN THIS COUNTRY ARE
RELATED TO HANDGUNS AND NOT TO
ASSAULT WEAPONS.
THE BEST WAY TO ADDRESS THAT
WITHOUT GETTING IN THE WAY OF
WHAT YOU OR I CAN DO WITH A GUN
DEALER IS TO MAKE SURE YOU CAN
PASS A BACKGROUND CHECK.
>> Woodruff: WE HEARD THE
COMMENT FROM ASA HUTCHINSON BUT
YOU HEAR IT FROM SOME DEMOCRATS
FROM, SHALL WE SAY, GUN RIGHTS
PARTS OF THE COUNTRY WHO SAY
HAVING THE MAYOR OF NEW YORK
CITY AS THE FACE OF THE
MOVEMENT, PART OF THIS MOVEMENT
ANYWAY,... MAY NOT BE HELPFUL.
THERE ARE FOLKS WHO CARE ABOUT
GUN RIGHTS AND THEY WOULD RATHER
SEE SOMEBODY WHO UNDERSTANDS
THAT CULTURE LEADING THE CHARGE
ON THIS.
>> YOU KNOW, MAYOR BLOOMBERG MAY
NOT SELL IN SOME OF THOSE PLACES
IN THE SAME WAY WAYNE LaPIERRE
DOESN'T SELL IN OTHER PARTS OF
THE COUNTRY.
YOU CAN'T MAKE THE MISTAKE OF
TYING THE PRINCIPLE AND THE
DEBATE TO SOME OF THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE INVOLVED IN IT.
MAYOR BLOOM BERKE IS THE COCHAIR
OF A COALITION THAT HAS ALMOST
1,000 MAYORS IN IT TODAY, MORE
THAN 100 OF THEM ARE
REPUBLICANS.
THEY'RE VERY DIFFERENT PEOPLE
WHO ARE ALL UNIFIED BY ONE
THING, THAT YOU CAN ACTUALLY
SUPPORT THE SECOND AMENDMENT AND
HAVE NO INTENTION OF TAKING
PEOPLE'S GUNS AWAY BUT STILL DO
MUCH MORE TO KEEP GUNS OUT OF
THE WRONG HANDS.
I THINK PEOPLE OUGHT TO FOCUS ON
KIND OF THE COALITION AND THE
IDEAS RATHER THAN TRYING TO
DEMONIZE THE PERSON.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, AND JUST
QUICKLY, WE MENTIONED STATES
LIKE CONNECTICUT PASSING TOUGHER
GUN CONTROL.
BUT THERE ARE OTHER STATES ARE
PUSHING BACK AND LOOSENING
RESTRICTIONS ON GUNS.
COULD YOU END UP LOSING THE
BATTLE IN THE STATES?
YOU KNOW, AT THE SAME TIME
YOU'RE TRYING TO FOCUS ON
WASHINGTON.
>> I DON'T THINK SO.
IN FACT THERE'S BEEN A SHIFT.
THE N.R.A. HAS DONE MOST OF THE
BAD WORK IT'S DONE UNDER THE
RADAR AND WITHOUT US IN
WASHINGTON NOTICING.
FOR THE PAST 10 OR 15 YEARS.
I MEAN STATE BY STATE BY STATE
THEY HAVE METHODICALLY PASSED
OUTRAGEOUS LAWS LIKE THE SANDRA
BROWN LAW THAT RESULTED IN THE
SHOOTING OF TRAYVON MARTIN AND
NO ARREST FOR MORE THAN A MONTH
FOR THE PERPETRATOR.
HE MAY NOT END UP BEING GUILTY.
THEY'VE DONE THIS ACROSS A RANGE
OF ISSUES.
THE FACT YOU'RE SEEING PUSH BACK
AND SEEING GOOD LAWS PASSED
INCLUDING IN MY HOME STE OTAF
COLORADO WHICH HAS A VERY STRONG
LIBERTARIAN STREAK AND A HIGH
TRADITION OF GUN OWNERSHIP, IF
YOU CAN DO IT THERE, YOU CAN
PROBABLY DO IT ANYWHERE.
>> Woodruff: MARK GLAZE WITH
MAYORS AGAINST ILLEGAL GUNS,
THANK YOU FOR BEING WITH US.
>> Warner: FOLLOW OUR ONGOING
COVERAGE OF THE GUNS DEBATE ON
OUR HOME PAGE.
AND STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR, NORTH KOREA'S NUCLEAR
AMBITIONS; ONE SENATOR'S MISSION
TO RESOLVE GRIDLOCK; AND ATLANTA
TEACHERS SURRENDER TO
AUTHORITIES.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: THE U.N. GENERAL
ASSEMBLY ADOPTED THE FIRST-EVER
TREATY ON GLOBAL ARMS TRADE
TODAY.
IT WAS OVERWHELMINGLY APPROVED,
154-3, WITH IRAN, NORTH KOREA,
AND SYRIA VOTING AGAINST IT.
23 COUNTRIES ABSTAINED,
INCLUDING CHINA AND RUSSIA.
IT WILL REQUIRE NATIONS THAT
RATIFY THE PACT TO REGULATE THE
TRANSFER OF CONVENTIONAL ARMS,
FROM L W
THEY'LL ALSO HAVE TO ENSURE
THOSE WEAPONS WON'T BE USED TO
COMMIT ACTS OF TERROR OR
ORGANIZED CRIME.
SUPPORTERS HOPE THAT WILL MAKE
THE ESTIMATED $60 BILLION ARMS
TRADE MORE TRANSPARENT.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN THE EUROZONE HIT
A RECORD 12% FOR THE MONTH OF
FEBRUARY.
IT'S THE FIRST TIME THE RATE HAS
BEEN THAT HIGH SINCE THE EURO
CURRENCY WAS CREATED IN 1999.
12% UNEMPLOYMENT TRANSLATES TO
MORE THAN 19 MILLION PEOPLE OUT
OF WORK ACROSS THE 17-NATION
EUROZONE.
THE FIGURES ALSO CAME OUT BEFORE
THE RECENT ECONOMIC CRISIS IN
CYPRUS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA ASKED CONGRESS
TO INVEST $100 MILLION NEXT YEAR
TO HELP UNLOCK THE MYSTERIES OF
THE HUMAN BRAIN.
THE SO-CALLED "BRAIN INITIATIVE"
PROJECT WOULD MAP BRAIN
FUNCTIONS WITH THE HOPES OF
EVENTUALLY FINDING CURES FOR
DISORDERS LIKE ALZHEIMER'S AND
EPILEPSY.
THE PRESIDENT UNVEILED THE PLAN
BEFORE A GROUP OF SCIENTISTS AT
THE WHITE HOUSE.
>> THINK ABOUT WHAT WE COULD DO
ONCE WE DO CRACK THIS CODE.
IMAGINE IF NO FAMILY HAD TO FEEL
HELPLESS WATCHING A LOVED ONE
DISAPPEAR BEHIND THE MASK OF
PARKINSON'S OR STRUGGLE IN THE
GRIP OF EPILEPSY.
IMAGINE IF WE COULD REVERSE
TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY OR
P.T.S.D. FOR OUR VETERANS WHO
ARE COMING HOME.
>> Sreenivasan: THE WHITE HOUSE
IS SLATED TO RELEASE PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S BUDGET NEXT WEEK.
THE PRESIDENT HAS MAINTAINED
THAT INVESTMENT IN EDUCATION AND
RESEARCH ARE CRITICAL, EVEN IN
THE FACE OF SPENDING CUTS.
THE ARKANSAS ATTORNEY GENERAL IS
OPENING AN INVESTIGATION INTO AN
EXXON MOBIL CRUDE OIL PIPELINE
THAT RUPTURED LAST WEEK.
EXXON HAS BEEN ASKED TO KEEP ALL
DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION
RELATED TO THE SPILL AND CLEANUP
EFFORTS.
THE SPILL, ABOUT 20 MILES
NORTHEAST OF LITTLE ROCK, FORCED
22 RESIDENTS TO EVACUATE THEIR
HOMES AS CRUDE OIL BUBBLED UP
ONTO THEIR PROPERTIES FROM THE
PIPELINE.
XON EXHAS AGREED TO COOPENVESTIE
PIPELINE REMAINS SHUT.
MARCH WAS THE BEST MONTH FOR
U.S. AUTO SALES IN AT LEAST SIX
YEARS.
FORD AND GENERAL MOTORS EACH
REPORTED THEIR SALES ROSE ABOUT
6%, AND CHRYSLER POSTED 5%
GAINS.
NISSAN HAD ITS BEST SHOWING IN
COMPANY HISTORY, WITH SALES UP
1%.
LOW INTEREST RATES AND NEW
MODELS HELPED DRIVE THE SALES,
BUT ANOTHER FACTOR WAS THE NEED
TO REPLACE OLDER CARS.
THE AVERAGE AGE OF A VEHICLE ON
U.S. ROADS IS MORE THAN 11
YEARS.
THOSE AUTO SALES REPORTS DROVE
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
TO ANOTHER RECORD HIGH ON WALL
STREET TODAY.
IT GAINED 89 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
14,662.
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 15
POINTS TO CLOSE ABOVE 3,254.
SUBARU ANNOUNCED A RECALL OF
200,000 OF ITS ALL-WHEEL-DRIVE
VEHICLES TO FIX A BRAKE PROBLEM.
IT AFFECTS THE LEGACY AND
OUTBACK MODELS FROM THE YEARS
2005 TO 2009.
SALT USED ON ICY ROADS IN THE
WINTER COULD CAUSE THEIR BRAKE
LINES TO RUST AND LEAK FLUID.
THAT COULD RESULT IN LONGER
VEHICLE STOPPING DISTANCES AND
INCREASE THE RISK OF A CRASH.
SO FAR NO ACCIDENTS HAVE BEEN
REPORTED.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO MARGARET.
>> Warner: WE TURN AGAIN TO THE
KOREAN PENINSULA, WHERE THERE
WAS YET ANOTHER ESCALATION IN
RHETORIC TODAY, AS NORTH KOREA
DECLARED IT WAS REACTIVATING ITS
NUCLEAR FACILITIES.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAME ON NORTH
KOREAN STATE TELEVISION.
>> THE GENERAL DEPARTMENT ATOMIC
ENERGY DECIDED TO ADJUST AND
ALTER THE USE OF EXISTING
NUCLEAR FACILITIES.
THIS INCLUDES READJUSTING AND
RESTARTING ALL NUCLEAR
FACILITIES IN PYONGYANG THIS
WORK WILL BE PUT INTO PRACTICE
WITHOUT DELAY.
>> Warner: AT ISSUE: A PLUTONIUM
REACTOR AND A URANIUM ENRICHMENT
PLANT NORTH OF THE CAPITAL
PYONGYANG.
THE REACTOR WAS SHUTTERED IN
2007 AMID DISARMAMENT TALKS.
A YEAR LATER THE NORTH DSTROEYED
THE FACILITY'S COOLING TOWER.
BUT IN 2009, NORTH KOREA PULLED
OUT OF THE TALKS, AND IT
REVEALED ITS URANIUM ENRICHMENT
PROGRAM IN 2010.
TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT FOLLOWS
LEADER KIM JONG-UN'S WEEKEND
PLEDGE TO BUILD UP THE NATION'S
NUCLEAR CAPABILITY.
>> IT IS ON THE BASIS OF A
STRONG NUCLEAR STRENGTH THAT
PEACE AND PROSPERITY CAN EXIST
AND SO CAN THE HAPPINESS OF
PEOPLE'S LIVES.
>> Warner: LAST DECEMBER THE
NORTH SUCCESSFULLY LAUNCHED A
LONG-RANGE ROCKET.
IN FEBRUARY, THE COUNTRY CARRIED
OUT ITS THIRD NUCLEAR TEST.
LEAVE LEADING TO ANOTHER ROUND
OF UNITED NATIONS' SANCTIONS.
TODAY U.N. SECRETARY GENERAL
BAN-KI MOON WARNED NUCLEAR
THREATS ARE NOT A GAME.
>> THINGS MUST BEGIN TO COME
DOWN.
AS THIS IS A SITUATION MADE
WORSE BY THE LACK OF
COMMUNICATION.
IT COULD LEAD DOWN A PATH THAT
NOBODY SHOULD WANT TO FOLLOW.
>> Warner: IN SEOUL SOUTH KOREA
RESIDENTS EXPRESSED UNEASE.
>> NORTH KOREA THREATENS US
EVERY DAY.
I AM VERY ANXIOUS.
>> Warner: THE PENTAGON SAID
TODAY A SECOND U.S. GUIDED
MISSILE DESTROYERER HAS BEEN
DEPLOYED TO THE WESTERN PACIFIC
ON A MISSILE DEFENSE MISSION.
THIS AFTERNOON IN WASHINGTON
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
MET WITH SOUTH KOREA'S FOREIGN
MINISTER.
>> LET ME BE PERFECTLY CLEAR
HERE TODAY.
THE UNITED STATES WILL DEFEND
AND PROTECT OURSELVES AND OUR
TREATY ALLY, THE REPUBLIC OF
KOREA.
>> Warner: THE CURRENT CONDITION
OF THE NORTH KOREAN FACILITIES
ISN'T KNOWN, NOR HOW LONG IT
WILL TAKE TO RESTART THEM.
FOR MORE WE TURN TO VETERAN
C.I.A. OFFICER JOSEPH VI TRANI
WHO SERVED AS THE OFFICER OF THE
DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE.
HE NOW HEADS THE INTELLIGENCE
AND NATIONAL SECURITY ALLIANCE.
WELCOME BACK.
>> THANK YOU.
HOW ALARMING A DEVELOPMENT IS
THIS NORTH KOREA RELAUNCHING
THESE NUCLEAR FACILITIES?
>> I THINK IT'S SIGNIFICANT,
VERY SIGNIFICANT.
CERTAINLY THEIR ADMISSION IN
WHICH THEY HAVE A HGHLYI
ENRICHED URANIUM PROGRAM WHICH
WE KNEW ALL ALONG BUT THEY NEVER
ADMITTED IT, THAT'S SIGNIFICANT.
RECONSTITUTING A PLUTONIUM
FACILITY WILL TAKE A FEW YEARS
BUT THAT'S SIGNIFICANT.
>> Warner: HOW LONG WILL IT
TAKE?
LET'S TAKE THE PLUTONIUM REACTOR
WHICH I GATHER USED TO SUPPLY AT
LEAST MOST OF THE NUCLEAR FUEL
FOR WHATEVER THEY HAD.
HOW LONG WILL IT TAKE TO GET
THAT UP AND RUNNING AGAIN?
>> THE SENSE IS IT'S IN
DISREPAIR.
IT'S BEEN 2007 WHEN THEY TOOK IT
DOWN AND THE COOLING TOWER.
SO THE SENSE WOULD BE AT LEAST A
FEW YEARS, TWO TO
TWO-AND-A-HALF, THREE YEARS TO
GET IT UP AND RUNNING.
>> Warner: WE ALREADY KNOW THAT
THEY HAVE ENOUGH FISSILE
MATERIAL FOR 6-8 BOMBS, 4-8
BOMBS AND IN FACT THEY'VE HAD
THEIR OWN NUCLEAR TEST.
SO WHAT IS THE BIG DEAL ABOUT
RESTARTING THIS PLANT?
>> IT'S PRODUCING MORE FISSILE
MATERIAL, MORE PLUTONIUM FOR
MORE NUCLEAR WE OWNS.
THAT'S WHAT KIM JONG-UN SAID THE
OTHER DAY ENHANCING THEIR
NUCLEAR WEAPONS PROGRAM.
THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT BUILDING
MORE NUCLEAR WEAPONS USING
PLUTONIUM WITH THE FACILITY AND
NOW ADMITTING TO USING HIGHLY
ENRICHED URANIUM.
>> Warner: WHAT'S THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THE HIGHLY
ENRICHED URANIUM.
WHY DO THEY NEED IT?
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS IT?
>> THIS IS SOMETHING THEY'VE
DENIED ALL ALONG FOR MANY YEARS.
THEY MAINTAINED THEY NEVER HAD A
HIGHLY ENRICHED URANIUM PROGRAM.
IN 2000 THEY SAID THEY HAVE A
YOU'RE RAIN NUMB ENRICHMENT
PROGRAM.
THE KEY HERE IS A HIGHLY
ENRICHED URANIUM PROGRAM SPEAKS
TO NUCLEAR WEAPON.
THERE'S ONLY ONE PURPOSE FOR
THAT: THAT'S TO BUILD NUCLEAR
WEAPONS.
>> Warner: WHAT'S THE ADVANTAGE
TO THEM OF HAVING TWO PATHS?
>> MORE NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
Warner: WHY PURSUE TWO
DIFFERENT TECHNOLOGIES?
>> THIS IS SOMETHING THAT COULD
BE DENIED.
THEY COULD HIGHLY ENRICHED
URANIUM IS SOMETHING THAT COULD
BE DONE VERY CLANDESTINELY.
THERE ARE VERY LITTLE IF ANY
SIGNATURES SO THEY COULD HAVE
SIGNIFICANT CAPABILITIES
UNBEKNOWNST TO THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY.
WHILE A PLUTONIUM FACILITY IS
VERY VISIBLE.
>> Warner: JUST BECAUSE OF ITS
SIZE?
>> BECAUSE OF ITS SIZE AND
BECAUSE OF THE TECHNOLOGY.
YOU CAN BURY HIGHLY ENRICHED
URANIUM PROGRAM AND THERE ARE
LITERALLY NO SIGNATURES COMING
OUT OF IT.
YOU CAN BE BUILDING CAPABILITIES
WHICH NO ONE IS AWARE OF.
>> Warner: ESPECIALLY BECAUSE
THEY HAVE NO WEAPONS INSPECTORS
THERE, NO I.A.E.A.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY.
WHEN THE I.A.E.A. WAS THERE THEY
WERE RESTRICTED TO JUST LOOKING
AT THE PLUTONIUM FACILITY.
>> Warner: SO THE QUESTION THAT
CONCERNS, OF COURSE, AMERICANS
AMONG OTHERS IS HOW CLOSE ARE
THEY TO BEING ABLE TO BUILD,
CONSTRUCT A COMPACT ENOUGH
NUCLEAR WAR HEAD THAT WOULD FIT
ATOP A MISSILE THAT COULD BE
DELIVERED TO THE UNITED STATES?
>> THERE'S A VERY GOOD POINTS.
THE SENSE IS I'VE BEEN AWAY FOR
IT FOR A NUMBER OF MONTHS BUT
THE SENSE IS FROM THE
INFORMATION AVAILABLE THAT THEY
ARE NOT THERE.
OBVIOUSLY AT THIS MOMENT NOW.
BUT WITH THE THIRD NUCLEAR TEST
THEY HAD IN FEBRUARY, THEY'RE
MOVING TOWARDS THAT CAPABILITY.
THE ASSESSMENT IS THEY ARE NOT
THERE TO MINIATURIZING SUCH THAT
THEY COULD MARRY IT UP TO A
MISSILE DELIVERY SYSTEM.
THEY'RE NOT THERE YET.
THEY WOULD NEED MORE TIME FOR
THAT.
>> Warner: DO THEY HAVE THE
TECHNICAL CAPABILITY?
>> I THINK THE ASSESSMENT IS
THEY DO HAVE THE TECHNICAL
CAPABILITY.
>> Warner: WHAT ABOUT TARGETING
THEIR NEIGHBOR MUCH CLOSER TO
HOME, SOUTH KOREA?
ARE THEY AT THE POINT THAT THEY
HAVE A DELIVERABLE NUCLEAR
DEVICE THAT COULD BE, SAY, SHUT
OFF BY A ROCKET LAUNCHER,
SURFACE TO SURFACE OR DROPPED
FROM A PLANE?
>> THAT'S AN EXCELLENT POINT.
EXCELLENT POINT.
WHEN YOU'RE A NEIGHBOR AND YOU
HAVE THE PROXIMITY AND SO FORTH,
A NUCLEAR WEAPON CAN BE
DELIVERED AS YOU JUST DESCRIBED.
THEY COULD DROP IT OUT OF AN
AIRPLANE IF IT NEED BE.
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE MARRIED UP
TO A MISSILE DELIVERY SYSTEM SO
IF YOU'RE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD,
THE THREAT IS VERY SIGNIFICANT
AND IT'S MUCH MORE IMMINENT.
>> Warner: BUT ARE THEY... WHAT
DO THEY STILL NEED TO DO TO BE
ABLE TO SAY THAT...
>> YOU NEED TO WEAPONNIZE IT IN
THE SENSE THAT THEY HAVE THE
CAPABILITY OF WEAPONNIZING THE
FISSILE MATERIAL.
THE NEXT ISSUE WOULD BE
MINIATURIZING IT SO IT COULD FIT
ON A DELIVERY SYSTEM, AND THAT'S
SENSE OF THEM WORKING TOWARDS
THAT CAPABILITY.
>> Warner: AS AN EXPERT IN THIS
FIELD, CAN YOU DRIVE ANY...
DERIVE ANY CONCLUSION FROM
INTENTIONS FROM ANNOUNCE MANIES
LIKE THIS AND DECISIONS TO
RESTART OPERATIONS LIKE THIS.
>> THIS IS SIGNIFICANT
ESCALATION.
THEY ARE DEFINITELY GETTING
EVERYONE'S ATTENTION.
AND BY CLAIMING TO HAVE A HIGHLY
ENRICHED URANIUM PROGRAM NOW
ADMITTING TO THE PROGRAM, THAT
IS VERY SIGNIFICANT.
IT'S OBVIOUS THAT HE WANTED TO
GET A MESSAGE ACROSS.
HE WANTED TO GET A VERY STARK
MESSAGE ACROSS WHICH HE HAS
DONE.
>> Warner: THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
THE PAST FEW YEARS HAVE SEEN
MORE GOOD LUCK IN WASHINGTON AND
POLITICS NATIONALLY THAN AT ANY
OTHER TIME IN MEMORY.
FROM THE FIGHTS OVER HEALTH CARE
REFORM AND THE DEBT LIMIT TO THE
SO-CALLED FISCAL CLIFF, THE TWO
PARTIES HAVE SEEMED LIKE
SEPARATE ARMED CAMPS.
IS IT POSSIBLE FOR LAWMAKERS TO
BRIDGE THE PARTISAN DIVIDE?
WE PUT THAT QUESTION TO FORMER
REPUBLICAN SENATOR OLYMPIA SNOW
OF MAINE.
SHE'S NOW A SENIOR FELLOW AT THE
BIPARTISAN POLICY CENTER AND
COCHAIR OF THE GROUP'S
COMMISSION ON POLITICAL REFORM.
CHARGED WITH MAKING THE SYSTEM
WORK BETTER.
SENATOR SNOWE, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
AS I ADDED IT UP YOU WERE IN
POLITICS FOR WHAT?
THREE OR FOUR DECADES.
WHY WOULD YOU TAKE ON THIS TASK
AFTER YOU'VE RETIRED?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, IT'S
INTERESTING.
I HAVE OFTEN SAID, YOU KNOW, AT
MY AGE YOU FACE ENOUGH DRASTIC
CHANGE.
YOU'RE NOT SEEKING MORE BUT I
DECIDED IF I WAS GOING TO
CONTINUE IN THE POLITICAL ARENA
PERHAPS I SHOULD CONTRIBUTE IN A
DIFFERENT WAY, GIVEN THE
POLARIZATION THAT'S OCCURRED.
AND MOST EXPONENTIALLY OVER THE
LAST FEW YEARS.
IT HAS TRULY GOTTEN WORSE.
YOU CAN SEE THE SLOW, STEADY
EROSION OF WHAT WAS HAPPENING
AND EVOLVING.
VERY CLEARLY GOTTEN WORSE TO THE
POINT THAT WE'RE NO LONGER
SOLVING PROBLEMS AND MOST
ESPECIALLY THE BIG PROBLEMS
FACING THIS COUNTRY.
I THOUGHT I COULD ADD MY VOICE
ON THE OUTSIDE TO ENCOURAGE
PEOPLE TO DEMAND BIPARTISANSHIP,
TO UNDERSTAND THE VALUE OF
BIPARTISANSHIP AND CONSENSUS
BUILDING IN THE POLITICAL ARENA.
WHAT IS THE PURPOSE OF PUBLIC
SERVICE?
TO SOLVE PROBLEMS FOR THE PEOPLE
YOU REPRESENT.
CERTAINLY IN THE UNITED STATES
SENATE SPEAKING ABOUT YOUR
COUNTRY AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: WHAT WOULD YOU
CONSIDER FIXING THE PROBLEM OR
AT LEAST MAKING SOME IMPROVEMENT
IN THE PROBLEM?
WHAT WOULD BE A BETTER WAY OF
OPERATING?
>> JUST LOOKING AT THE LAST TWO
YEARS, I MEAN, I THINK IT'S A
TEMPLATE.
IT'S BEEN HAPPENING EVEN BEFORE
THAT OBVIOUSLY.
BUT JUST OVER THE LAST TWO YEARS
WHEN WE HAD, YOU KNOW, SOME VERY
SERIOUS PROBLEMS FROM THE DEBT
CEILING, FOR EXAMPLE.
YOU KNOW, WE DIDN'T GRAPPLE WITH
THAT ISSUE AT THE VERY BEGINNING
IN JANUARY, 2011.
WE WAITED UNTIL THE 11th
HOUR IN AUGUST OF 2011 TO THE
FINAL HOUR ON THE DEADLINE.
ULTIMATELY THE COUNTRY
EXPERIENCED THE FIRST DOWNGRADE
IN ITS HISTORY OF ITS CREDIT
RATING.
THAT'S GOING TO COST ACCORDING
TO THE BIPARTISAN POLICY CENTER
WHICH I'M A SENIOR FELLOW $20
BILLION OVER THE NEXT TEN YEARS.
YET WE KNEW THE IMPLICATIONS AND
RAMIFICATIONS OF DEAVERING,
DELAYING, OBFUSCATING THAT KIND
OF ACTION.
THEN YOU LOOK AT NO BUDGET AND I
KNOW THE SENATE HAS FINALLY
PASSED A BUDGET.
OBVIOUSLY IT HAS TO BE
RECONCILED FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
FOUR YEARS WE DIDN'T ADDRESS ANY
OF THE MAJOR QUESTIONS OVER THE
LAST TWO YEARS.
WE JUST NEGLECTED, YOU KNOW, THE
INTEREST OF THE COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT CAN BE DONE
ABOUT IT?
>> I THINK THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
HAVE TO DEMAND CHANGE.
WHAT I'VE BEEN SAYING IN MY
SPEECHES ALL OVER THE COUNTRY IS
THAT IT'S TIME FOR ALL OF US TO
PROVIDE REWARDS FOR THOSE WHO
ARE WILLING TO ENGAGE IN
BIPARTISANSHIP AND WORKING
ACROSS THE POLITICAL AISLE AND
PROVIDING A POLITICAL PARTY FOR
THOSE WHO DON'T.
IF YOU SEE THE EMERGENCE OF
GROUPS ON BOTH SIDES FROM THE
TEA PARTY TO OCCUPY WALL STREET.
HOW DID THEY GET MOBILIZED IN
THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA AND THROUGH
THE INTERNET.
AND THE SAME CAN BE TRUE FOR
THOSE WHO WANT TO SEE THEIR
COUNTRY WORK AND WANT THEIR
POLITICAL SYSTEM TO WORK.
I MEAN THEY'RE FEARFUL ABOUT THE
FUTURE SIMPLY BECAUSE THEY SEE
THE DEBILITATION, THE POLITICAL
PROCESS IN WASHINGTON.
IT REALLY HAS FRUSTRATED AND
ANGERED PEOPLE.
IT'S MADE THEM FEARFUL ABOUT THE
FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: WITH ALL DUE
RESPECT, SENATOR.
I HEAR MANY ANALYSTS SAY, YES,
THE PROBLEM IS ON BOTH SIDES BUT
MORE OF THE PROBLEM IS WITH YOUR
PARTY, WITH THE REPUBLICANS.
IN FACT A RESPECTED POLITICAL
SCIENTIST NORMAN ORNSTEIN, TOM
MANN WROTE A BACK LAST YEAR.
THE THRUST OF IT WAS THAT IT'S
THE REPUBLICANS WHO HAVE BEEN
THE MOST IDEOLOGICALLY EXTREME,
THE LEAST WILLING TO COMPROMISE,
THE MOST DISMISSIVE OF THE OTHER
PARTY.
HOW DO YOU SEE THAT?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I DON'T
DISAGREE WITH THEM THAT
CERTAINLY REPUBLICANS, YOU KNOW,
HAVE ALSO INDUCED WHERE WE ARE
TODAY IN TERMS OF THE
PARTISANSHIP AND MORE
FILIBUSTERS.
I WOULD AGREE WITH THAT.
I DIDN'T SUPPORT ALL THE
FILIBUSTERS.
I THINK THERE WERE INSTANCES
THAT THERE WERE LEGITIMATELY
WHEN THE MAJORITY DOESN'T ALLOW
THE MINORITY TO OFFER AMENDMENTS
SO THE WHOLE PROCESS IS BROKEN
DOWN IN THE UNITED STATES
SENATE.
MORE THAN ANYTHING ELSE IS WHAT
INSTITUTIONALLY HAS OCCURRED IN
THE SENATE.
YES, IT STARTED CERTAINLY WITH
THE REPUBLICANS INSTIGATING MORE
FILIBUSTERS AND, YOU KNOW, IT'S
TIT FOR TAT OVER TIME.
IT DEPENDS ON WHICH POSITION
EACH SIDE IS IN.
THEY USE EACH OTHER'S TACTICS.
SO THE POINT WHERE THE PROCESS
WASN'T WORKING, NOTHING WAS
HAPPENING IN THE COMMITTEES.
TO BUILD UP ON LEGISLATION, TO
WORK ON LEGISLATION AND NO
AMENDMENTS.
SO THE WHOLE PROCESS HAD
SHATTERED.
IT FALLS TO BOTH SIDES.
THERE'S NO QUESTION THAT THE
REPUBLICANS HAVE THAT
RESPONSIBILITY AS WELL AS
DEMOCRATS TO MAKE THE SYSTEM
WORK.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS IT?
I MEAN, IF YOU WERE AGAIN A
MEMBER -- AND YOU WERE A MEMBER
OF CONGRESS FOR WE SAID SEVERAL
DECADES -- YOU'RE HEARING MANY
IN YOUR OWN PARTY SAY TO YOU,
BACK IN YOUR DISTRICT OR BACK IN
YOUR STATE DON'T COMPROMISE.
STAND ON PRINCIPLE.
THEN YOU SEE POLLS PERHAPS THAT
SHOW MOST AMERICANS WANT
WASHINGTON TO WORK.
AND YOU THINK IT SHOULD WORK.
BUT THEN THERE'S REALLY NO
PRESSURE ON YOU TO WORK WITH THE
OTHER SIDE BECAUSE YOU'RE NOT
REWARDED FOR THAT.
YOU MAY NOT GET RE-ELECTED IF
YOU WORK FOR THE OTHER SIDE.
HOW DO YOU SEE THAT?
>> RIGHT.
I THINK THERE HAS TO BE CHANGES
IN THAT SENSE.
I THINK EVEN AT A LOCAL LEVELS
IN TERMS OF, YOU KNOW, OPENING
UP PRIMARIES AND SO ON.
SO THAT, YOU KNOW, ELECTED
OFFICIALS AND REDISTRICTING FOR
THAT MATTER FOR THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES HAVE MORE
INDEPENDENT COMMISSIONS BUT I
THINK ABSOLUTELY THE FACT IS WE
HAD A PROCESS THAT WAS WORKING,
YOU KNOW, AND YOU HAD AMENDMENTS
AND PEOPLE ON BOTH SIDES THIS
THE OPPORTUNITY TO WEIGH IN, THE
RANK AND FILE.
AND THEN YOU CAN SAY, LISTEN, I
TRIED TO MODIFY THIS
LEGISLATION, MAKE CHANGES, MAKE
IT BETTER.
THIS IS WHAT I WAS ABLE TO
ACCOMPLISH.
AND LET THE PROCESS WORK.
AND THEN YOU CAN EXPLAIN TO YOUR
CONSTITUENTS, YOU KNOW, WHAT
YOU'RE ABLE TO SUPPORT AND THE
REASONS WHY.
BUT NOW WHEN YOU SAY IT'S ALL OR
NOTHING, IT BECOMES THE
PARLIAMENTARY SYSTEM THAT IT HAS
BEEN AT LEAST OVER THE LAST TWO
YEARS WHERE BOTH SIDES ARE
WORKING IN UNITY AND POLITICAL
BLOCKS RATHER THAN LETTING...
ESPECIALLY IN THE SENATE.
I SAY FOR THE LEADERSHIP TOO AND
FOR THE PRESIDENT.
FRANKLY, AND SOMETIMES IT'S IN
THE INTEREST OF THE LEADERS TO
CENTRALIZE THEIR DECISION-MAKING
IN THEIR HANDS AND CONCENTRATE
IT THERE RATHER THAN ALLOWING
THE RANK AND FILE TO BUILD
SUPPORT FOR VARIOUS INITIATIVES.
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
ANOTHER QUESTION ABOUT YOUR OWN
PARTY, THE REPUBLICANS, THE
LEADERSHIP OF THE PARTY RECENTLY
CONDUCTED WHAT THEY CALLED AN
AUTOPSY.
THEY SAID A LOT OF IT WAS JUST
COMMUNICATING WITH THE VOTERS.
OTHERS ARE LOOKING AT IT AND
SAYING IT'S SOME OF THE BELIEFS
IN THE REPUBLICAN PARTY THAT ARE
OUT OF THE MAINSTREAM.
RIGHT NOW ON GUN CONTROL WHICH
IS AN ISSUE BEFORE THE COUNTRY.
YOUR PARTY IS THE PARTY THAT'S
BASICALLY SAYING WE DON'T NEED
ANY MORE RESTRICTIONS ON GUNS.
HOW DO YOU SEE YOUR PARTY?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THERE'S NO
QUESTION THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
HAS HAD A SERIOUS PROBLEM.
I REMEMBER WRITING AN OP-ED
PIECE BEFORE THE NATIONAL CON
VEDGES.
IN FACT ON WHAT THEY NEEDED TO
DO.
BUT EVEN THEN IN MANY WAYS
ALMOST TOO LATE FOR THE
PERCEPTIONS THAT HAD ALREADY
BEEN EMBEDDED ABOUT THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY WHICH MANY OF
THEM ARE REALISTIC.
I MEAN TOO RIGID.
TOO INFLEXIBLE.
TOO INTOLERANT.
TOO, YOU KNOW, EXCLUSIVE.
CERTAINLY AS A REPUBLICAN AT THE
REPUBLICAN MEMBER OF THE SENATE
AND HAVING BEEN A REPUBLICAN
ALMOST ALL MY LIFE I'M SEEING
WHAT'S CHANGES IN THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY.
IT WASN'T THE PARTY THAT I
JOINED OBVIOUSLY.
OR SERVED DURING MY TIME IN
OFFICE.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN TO SAY IT
CAN'T CHANGE.
THEY'RE RECOGNIZING THAT.
IT'S GOING TO BE MORE
COMMUNICATIONS ABSOLUTELY.
IT WILL BE THE POLICIES.
THEY'VE GOT TO UNDERSTAND WHAT
THE AVERAGE PERSON NEEDS IN
AMERICA.
THEY'VE GOT TO BE MORE TOLERANT.
AND NOT... AND BE MORE INCLUSIVE
IN REACHING OUT TO PEOPLE.
OBVIOUSLY THAT'S WHY THEY'VE
LOST WOMEN AND HISPANICS.
WE KNOW THE LIST.
NOT SURPRISED BY IT.
JUST BECAUSE THEY KNOW THEY'VE
BEEN INTOLERANT OF DIVERSITIES
WITHIN THE PARTY.
HOW IS IT THAT THEY CAN BE
TOLERANT OF VIEWSSI
PARTY?
THAT'S WHAT'S GOT TO CHANGE.
PEOPLE UNDERSTAND WHAT'S
HAPPENED WITHIN THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY.
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO CHANGE.
>> Woodruff: DOES THAT INCLUDE
ON GUN CONTROL?
>> THAT'S ONE OF THE ISSUES.
OBVIOUSLY, I MEAN, I THINK
BASICALLY THAT'S MORE OR LESS...
MORE REGIONAL AND GEOGRAPHIC
THAN IT IS PARTISAN.
I KNOW THAT FROM MY OWN STATE.
FOR EXAMPLE.
BUT I THINK THEY HAVE TO LOOK AT
THOSE ISSUES AS WELL AND SEE IF
IT TAKES REASONABLE PRACTICAL
SENSE IN THIS DAY AND AGE AND
WHAT OCCURRED IN THE HORRIFIC
EVENT IN CONNECTICUT.
AT SANDY HOOK.
>> Woodruff: FORMER SENATOR
OLYMPIA SNOWE, WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Warner: NEXT, ALLEGATIONS OF
WIDESPREAD CHEATING BY
PRINCIPALS AND TEACHERS IN
ATLANTA'S PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
THE CHARGES HAVE TARNISHED THE
SCHOOL SYSTEM AND TRIGGERED
CRIMINAL INDICTMENTS.
TODAY MARKED AN IMPORTANT
DEADLINE IN THE CASE.
EARLY THIS MORNING, TAMIKA
GOODSON TURNED HERSELF IN TO
AUTHORITIES AT FULTON COUNTY
JAIL, THE FIRST OF NEARLY THREE
DOZEN FORMER ATLANTA EDUCATORS
REQUIRED TO SURRENDER AFTER
BEING INDICTED IN A SYSTEMWIDE
CHEATING SCANDAL.
FTONUL COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY
PAUL HOWARD ANNOUNCED THE
CHARGES FRIDAY.
>> THE FOUR PRINCIPAL CRIMES
THAT ARE CHARGED IN THE
INDICTMENT ARE THE STATEMENTS
AND WRITINGS, FALSE SWEARINGS,
AND INFLUENCING WITNESSES.
>> Warner: PROSECUTORS SAY AS
EARLY AS 2005 UNDER PRESSURE
FROM THE TOP, PRINCIPALS AND
TEACHERS ENGAGED IN COORDINATED
DOCTORING OF STUDENTS'
STANDARDIZED TEST SCORES.
THE CHARGES RANGE FROM GIVING
STUDENTS THE CORRECT ANSWERS TO
CHANGING WRONG ANSWERS TO RIGHT
ONES.
AT THE CENTER OF THE SCANDAL IS
FORMER SUPERINTENDENT BEVERLY
HALL.
DURING HER 12 YEARS AS ITS HEAD,
THE ATLANTA PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM
GAINED ATTENTION FOR ITS
METEORIC PROGRESS SO MUCH SO
THAT IN 2009 HALL WAS NAMED
NATIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF THE
YEAR.
SHE RETIRED IN 2011 JUST BEFORE
A STATE INVESTIGATION FOUND
EVIDENCE OF CHEATING INVOLVING
178 EDUCATORS INCLUDING 38
PRINCIPALS.
THE EX-SCHOOL'S CHIEF NOW FACES
RACKETEERING AND OTHER
CONSPIRACY CHARGES INCLUDING
THEFT.
DISTRICT ATTORNEY HOWARD.
>> WITHOUT HER, THIS CONSPIRACY
COULD NOT HAVE TAKEN PLACE
PARTICULARLY IN THE DEGREE THAT
IT TOOK PLACE BECAUSE, AS WE
KNOW, THIS TOOK PLACE IN 58 OF
THE ATLANTA PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
IT WOULD NOT HAVE TAKEN PLACE IF
HER ACTIONS HAD NOT MADE THAT
POSSIBLE.
>> Warner: PROSECUTORS SAY HALL
RECEIVED BONUSES TIED TO THE
FALSELY INFLATED TEST SCORES.
HALL HAS DENIED ANY INVOLVEMENT
IN THE CHEATING SCANDAL.
AND YESTERDAY SO OFME THE OTHERS
ACCUSED ALSO DENIED ANY
WRONGDOING TO LOCAL PRESS.
>> I AM ACTUALLY CONSIDERED A
CRIMINAL FOR DOING THE BEST I
CAN FOR CHILDREN ALL MY LIFE.
>> I CAN TELL YOU DR. HALL HAS
NEVER TOLD ME TO CHEAT NOR HAVE
I TOLD ANYONE ELSE TO CHEAT.
>> Warner: TRIAL DATES HAVE NOT
BEEN SET.
HALL FACES UP TO 45 YEARS IF
CONVICTED ON ALL COUNTS.
AS OF 5:00 P.M. TODAY JUST 11 OF
THE DEFENDANTS HAD TURNED
THEMSELVES IN.
AND DEFENSE LAWYERS
COMPLAINED ABOUT SOME BONDS THAT
WERE SET AT ONE MILLION DOLLARS
OR HIGHER.
WE LOOK MORE CLOSELY AT THE
CHEATING SCANDAL WITH MIKE
WINERIP, WHO'S COVERING IT FOR
THE "NEW YORK TIMES."
MIKE,
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
THE SCOPE OF THIS ALLEGED
OPERATION IS HUGE.
HOW DID IT ACTUALLY WORK?
WHAT WERE THE METHEDDED ONS
TEACHERS USED ALLEGEDLY TO
CHANGE OR BOOST TEST SCORES?
>> WELL, THE MOST BASIC CHANGES,
MARGARET WERE DONE BY ERASE
YOU'RE WHERE WRONG ANSWERS WERE
TURNED RIGHT.
THE INVESTIGATION SHOWED THAT
SOMETHING LIKE SOME OF THE
SCHOOLS, THE ODDS OF IT
HAPPENING RANDOMLY WERE A
TRILLION TO ONE.
PRINCIPALS OFTEN DIRECTED THE
TEACHERS.
THE TEACHERS... THERE WAS ONE
TEACHER, A CASE WHERE HE WENT
INTO A LOCKED TESTING ROOM.
HE HAD A RAZOR BLADE.
HE CUT THE CELLOPHANE ON THE
TEST AND TOOK THE TEST OUT.
HE COPIED IT.
HE RETURNED IT.
HE USED A CIGARETTE LIGHTER TO
RESEAL THE CELLOPHANE.
>> Warner: AND WHAT WAS
SUPERINTENDENT BEVERLY HALL'S
ROLE AGAIN ACCORDING TO THE
PROSECUTORS?
IN OTHER WORDS, IS SHE ACCUSED
OF BEING THE MASTER MIND AND
ORDERING OR DIRECTING THIS OR
WAS IT SOMETHING LESS OVERT THAN
THAT?
>> AT THIS POINT IT APPEARS TO
BE SOMETHING LESS OVERT.
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE, AS HER
ATTORNEYS POINTED OUT, THAT SHE
ACTUALLY SAT IN HER OFFICE AND
SAID I WANT CHEATING AT THE
PARKS MIDDLE SCHOOL.
BUT THERE IS EVIDENCE THAT
PEOPLE CAME TO HER DIRECTLY, THE
ATLANTA JOURNAL CONSTITUTION,
THE EDUCATION DEPARTMENT, HER
OWN INVESTIGATORS SAID THERE'S
SUBSTANTIAL CHEATING AT THESE
SCHOOLS.
SHE DID NOTHING SUBSTANTIAL
ABOUT IT.
>> Warner: YOU ALSO WROTE, I
THINK, THAT UNDER HER SYSTEM IF
PRINCIPALS DIDN'T CONSISTENTLY
IMPROVE THE SCORES AT THEIR
SCHOOL, THEY COULD BE FIRED AND
OFTEN WERE.
>> YES, INDEED.
THEY WERE GIVEN THREE YEARS TO
MAKE THE TARGETS.
IF THEY DIDN'T, SHE TOLD THEM
THEY WOULD BE GONE.
AND IN THE COURSE OF HER DECADE
OR SO THERE, SOMETHING LIKE 90%
OF THE PRINCIPALS WERE REPLACED.
>> Warner: YOU HAD A VERY
INTERESTING STORY.
YOU MENTIONED THE ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL.
ABOUT HOW THE SPECIAL
PROSECUTORS APPOINTED BY THE
GOVERNOR AND AN INVESTIGATOR
CRACKED THIS CASE.
IT INVOLVED AN ELEMENTARY
TEACHER AT THE HILLS.
>> HER NAME IS JACKIE PARKS.
JACKIE IS A THIRD GRADE TEACHER.
AND WHEN RICHARD HYDE, THE LEAD
INVESTIGATOR FOR THE SPECIAL
PROSECUTORS TURNED UP THERE FOR
A COUPL OFE WEEKS THE TEACHERS
LIED TO HIM ABOUT WHETHER THEY
WERE INVOLVED.
JACKIE PARKS INDEED BLOCKED HIS
ENTRY INTO THEIR THIRD GRADE
CLASS.
HE KEPT COMING BACK.
MS. PARKS, A VERY RELIGIOUS
WOMAN, AND IT WEIGHED ON HER
CONSCIENCE.
SHE FINALLY APPROACHED HIM AND
TOLD HIM WHAT HAPPENED AND WHAT
HAPPENED WAS A GROUP OF SEVEN
TEACHERS, INCLUDING HERSELF,
KNOWN AS THE CHOSEN, SAT IN A
ROOM, A LOCKED ROOM WITH NO
WINDOWS AND ERASED WRONG ANSWERS
AND MADE THEM RIGHT.
AND BECAUSE OF HER RELIGION, HER
CHRISTIANITY, SHE COULDN'T BEAR
IT ANYMORE.
AND AFTER SHE CONFESSED TO
MR. HYDE, HE WIRED HER AN
ELECTRONIC WIRE AND SHE RECORDED
OTHER TEACHERS AT THE SCHOOL.
>> Warner: WHAT ABOUT THE REAL
VICTIMS HERE, THE CHILDREN WHO
WERE ADVANCED TO THE NEXT GRADE
AND THE NEXT GRADE DESPITE NOT
BEING READY?
HOW MUCH DAMAGE WAS DONE?
HAVE THEY TRIED TO QUANTIFY
THAT?
AND WHAT'S BEING DONE TO RECTIFY
THINGS FOR THEM?
OR TO HELP THEM CATCH UP?
>> WELL, THERE'S NO... IT'S NOT
KNOWN EXACTLY HOW MANY CHILDREN
WERE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED BY
THIS.
WHEN THE NEW SUPERINTENDENT CAME
IN, ERROL DAVIS, ONE OF THE
FIRST THINGS HE DID WAS SET UP
SPECIAL REMEDIAL COURSES FOR THE
KIDS WHO HAD BEEN AT SCHOOLS
WHERE THERE WAS CHEATING,
SOMETHING LIKE 8,000 STUDENTS
WERE INCLUDED.
THERE WAS TESTIMONY AT ONE OF
THE SCHOOLS FROM A TEACHER THAT
SHE HAD STUDENTS AT A MIDDLE
SCHOOL WHO CAME IN AND WAS
SUPPOSEDLY PROFICIENT IN READI
READING.
WHEN SHE ACTUALLY TESTED THEM,
THEY WERE READING ON THE FIRST
GRADE LEVEL.
BECAUSE THEY HAD BEEN PASSED AS
PROFICIENT WHEN THEY HAD
ACTUALLY FLUNKED THE TEST IN
PREVIOUS YEARS.
>> Warner: FINALLY, WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THE NATIONAL PICTURE, I
MEAN THERE ARE ACCUSATIONS OF
TEACHER OR PRINCIPAL CHEATING
LIKE THIS IN OTHER PARTS OF THE
COUNTRY.
DO YOU KNOW IF THE SCOPE OF THE
ATLANTA CASE, IS THIS AN
ABERRATION?
IS ATLANTA REALLY AN OUT LIER OR
IS IT POSSIBLE THERE ARE OTHER
WIDESPREAD OPERATIONS LIKE THIS?
>> NO, I DON'T BELIEVE IT IS AN
OUTRIDER AND I BELIEVE THERE ARE
OTHER OPERATIONS LIKE THIS.
THE PROBLEM IS ONLY ATLANTA HAS
INVESTED THE RESOURCES TO FIND
OUT.
MOST OF THE SCHOOL SYSTEMS DON'T
WANT TO KNOW.
WASHINGTON D.C., THE STATE OF
OHIO WHAT'S GOING ON NOW ON THE
EL PASO TEXAS.
AND IN GEORGIA, THE FORMER
GOVERNOR, SONNY PURDUE APPOINTED
TWO LEAD PROSECUTORS IN THE
STATE, A FORMER ATTORNEY
GENERAL, A FORMER DISTRICT
ATTORNEY, THE BEST INVESTIGATOR
IN THE THEM AN OPEN
BUDGET AND SAID FIND OUT WHAT
YOU CAN FIND OUT.
AND THEY EVENTUALLY HIRED 50
INVESTIGATORS AND WERE GIVEN A
YEAR'S TIME.
THEY CAME UP WITH THE EVIDENCE.
I BELIEVE THAT WOULD BE FOUND AT
MANY MANY OTHER SCHOOL DISTRICTS
IF THERE WAS A POLITICAL WILL TO
GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THESE
THINGS.
>> Warner: MIKE WINERIP OF THE
"NEW YORK TIMES," THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME,
MARGARET.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, WE
TALK WITH ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S
MOST ACCLAIMED POETS, GERALD
STERN, AS HE LOOKS BACK AT MORE
THAN 70 YEARS OF WRITING VERSE.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR
CONVERSATION, PART OF OUR
OCCASIONAL SERIES ON POETS AND
POETRY.
>> Brown: AT 87 GERALD STERN HAS
BEEN WRITING POETRY A LONG TIME
AND HAS BEEN ONE OF THE NATION'S
MOST HONORED POETS.
NOW HE'S RECEIVED A NEW HONOR
FOR A COLLECTION OF SOME OF HIS
EARLIEST WORKS.
THE PRESTIGIOUS BOBBIT NATIONAL
PRIZE FOR POETRY FROM THE
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS IS GIVEN FOR
THE MOST DISTINGUISHED BOOK OF
VERSE PUBLISHED IN THE LAST TWO
YEARS.
STERN WON FOR HIS EARLY
COLLECTED POEMS.
HIS NEWEST BOOK IS CALLED "IN
BEAUTY BRIGHT."
WELCOME TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
Brown: WHAT HAPPENED WHEN YOU
LOOK... I WANT TO TALK ABOUT
THIS EARLY COLLECTION.
WHAT HAPPENED WHEN YOU LOOK BACK
AT THE EARLY POEMS?
WHAT DID YOU SEE?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I PAID A LOT
OF ATTENTION TO IT IN THE LAST
COUPLE OF DAYS.
BECAUSE I FELT THERE THAT IT WAS
MY DUTY IN TERMS OF THIS PRIZE
TO READ FROM THAT BOOK RATHER
THAN READ SOME POEMS.
AND WHAT STRUCK ME WAS TWO
THINGS.
THE OVERWHELMING SIMILARITY OF
WHAT I'M DOING NOW AND THE
OVERWHELMING DIFFERENCE.
>> Brown: (LAUGHING) ON THE ONE
HAND, ON THE OTHER HAND.
>> IN A CERTAIN YEAR, 64/66
SOMETHING DEVELOPED.
A VOICE THAT I'VE BEEN HAPPY
WITH EVER SINCE.
I'VE NEVER BEEN LEFT ALONE.
I'VE NEVER HAD A TIME WHEN I
DIDN'T HAVE FIVE OR SIX POEMS.
FROM THAT DAY TO THIS WHERE I'M
READY TO WORK.
>> Brown: IN THAT SENSE YOU FEEL
SORT OF THE SAME POET.
>> ALBEIT, YOU KNOW, YOU WRITE
DIFFERENTLY WHEN YOU'RE 70 THAN
WHEN YOU'RE 0 OR WHEN YOU'RE 80
THAN WHEN YOU'RE 50.
>> Brown: WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
HOW DO YOU WRITE DIFFERENTLY?
>> YOU'RE CLOSER TO DEATH.
YOU'RE FARTHER FROM BIRTH.
YOUR CHILDREN, IF YOU HAVE THEM,
ARE OLDER.
YOU HAVE SOME MONEY.
>> Brown: YOU GREW UP IN
PITTSBURGH.
>> YEP.
Brown: YOU DESCRIBE WALKING
THE STREETS.
YOU CAME FROM A WORKING CLASS
BACKGROUND.
>> THAT'S WHAT I DID.
I WALKED ALL THE TIME ACROSS THE
BRIDGES.
>> Brown: AND...
THROUGH THE TUNNELS.
Brown: AND THE BACKGROUND WAS
NOT ONE OF LITERATURE AND
POETRY.
>> WE DIDN'T HAVE ONE BOOK IN MY
HOUSE.
NOT ONE BOOK.
WE USED TO GET PITTSBURGH SUN
TELEGRAPH WHICH WAS A HEARST
PAPER.
WE SUBSCRIBED TO "LOOK"
MAGAZINE.
THAT WAS THE EX-EXTENT OF
READING MATERIAL THERE PLUS A
BIBLE IN HEBREW, YOU KNOW.
>> Brown: WHEN IT CAME TO...
THERE YOU WERE TEACHING AMERICAN
LITERATURE AND YOU HAD TO TEACH
YOURSELF IN SOME WAYS?
>> I WAS A PRISONER OF THE
LIBRARY.
I JUST SPENT HOURS SITTING ON
THE... IN THE STACKS ON A
LIGHTED FLOOR WHICH GAVE UP SOME
HEAT IN THE MAIN BRANCH OF THE
CARNEGIE LIBRARY IN PITTSBURGH
JUST READING, READING, AND
READING.
AFTER I GRADUATED FROM COLLEGE
AND I DID WITH HIGHEST HONORS I
WAS REALLY A BRIGHT STUDENT, I
WASN'T A MAJOR IN ENGLISH.
I MAJORED IN POLITICAL SCIENCE.
I WAS GOING TO BE A LAWYER.
MY DAD, MY POOR DAD SAID, WELL,
WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO?
I WAS OFFERED ALL KINDS OF
SCHOLARSHIPS.
I SAID I'M GOING TO TAKE OFF A
YEAR AND READ.
THAT BECAME TEN YEARS.
I LIVED IN PARIS, NEW YORK AND
ALL THAT STUFF.
>> Brown: THEN A LIFE OF READING
AND A LIFE OF WRITING.
>> YEAH.
Brown: JUST BRING US UP IN
OUR LAST MINUTE HERE LIKE BRING
US UP TO DATE.
I MEAN, WHERE ARE YOU NOW AS A
WRITER, AS A POET?
>> IN 2012 I HAD TWO BOOKS
PUBLHED.IS
THIS BOOK CALLED "IN BEAUTY
BRIGHT" WHICH IS A BOOK OF
POETRY AND A BOOK OF PROSE
CALLED "STEALING HISTORY" WHICH
IS PUBLISHED BY TRINITY
UNIVERSITY PRESS.
IT'S ABOUT 300-SOME PAGES.
85 SHORT SECTIONS.
THEY'RE NOT... WELL, THEY'RE
ESSAY-LIKE AND ALMOST LIKE PROSE
POEMS SOME OF THEM.
SINCE I'VE PUBLISHED THIS BOOK,
I COUNTED THE OTHER DAY, I HAVE
63 NEW POEMS.
>> Brown: YOU'RE CERTAINLY NOT
SLOWING DOWN.
>> I'M SPEEDING UP.
(LAUGHING).
>> Brown: IN A SENSE OF URGENCY?
OR JUST HAPPENING?
>> JUST JOY.
Brown: JUST JOY.
JOY AND SORROW, OF COURSE.
THEY GO TOGETHER.
DON'T THEY?
>> Brown: I GUESS SO.
AND IT'S JUST WHAT I DO.
I HAVE ANOTHER POEM AGAIN THAT'S
A RECENT POEM.
I DON'T HAVE IT WITH ME.
I DON'T THINK 'S IITN HERE.
IT'S CALLED "THE MULE."
I THINK OF MYSELF AS A MULE WITH
BLINDERS OR BLINDED.
SOME OF THEM THEY ACTUALLY...
THEY WENT IN A CIRCLE PUSHING
AGAINST A STONE GRINDING CORN,
GRINDING WHEAT.
ONLY I MAKE POEMS SO I'M A MULE.
>> Brown: (LAUGHING).
THAT WAS THE METAPHOR I USED
IN THAT POEM.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT.
WELL, THE HONORED BOOK IS FOR
THE EARLY COLLECTED POEMS,
1965-1992.
THE NEW BOOK IS "IN BEAUTY
BRIGHT."
MR. STERN, NICE TO TALK TO YOU.
>> IT'S A PLEASURE TO TALK TO
YOU, IT REALLY IS.
>> Woodruff: WHAT AN
INSPIRATION.
AND GO TO ART BEAT TO LISTEN TO
STERN READ HIS POEM, "THE ONE
THING IN LIFE."
>> Warner: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION
CALLED FOR ARMING AND TRAINING
SECURITY OFFICERS IN EVERY U.S.
SCHOOL.
NORTH KOREA VOWED TO RESTART ITS
PLUTONIUM REACTOR.
AND THE U.N. GENERAL ASSEMBLY
ADOPTED THE FIRST-EVER TREATY ON
GLOBAL ARMS TRADE.
>> Warner: ONLINE, WE FOLLOW UP
ON OUR STORY ABOUT THE BENEFITS
BACKLOG AT THE VETERANS
ADMINISTRATION.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: NEARLY ONE
MILLION VETERANS ARE WAITING FOR
THEIR BENEFIT CLAIMS TO BE
PROCESSED.
IN A V.A. OFFICE IN NORTH
CAROLINA, THE CLAIMS WERE
STACKED SO HIGH THEY WERE DEEMED
A SAFETY HAZARD.
SEE WHAT THE MASS OF PAPERWORK
LOOKED LIKE BEFORE IT WAS
CLEANED UP IN PHOTOS ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
A COLORADO PROGRAM, SHAKES
PIERCE CLASSICS TO STEM
BULLYING.
PLUS, CAN SEARCH ENGINE RESULTS
INFLUENCE VOTING BEHAVIOR?
ONE PSYCHOLOGIST SAYS IT CAN.
THAT CONVERSATION IS ON OUR
POLITICS PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
MARGARET?
>> Warner: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT A
KENTUCKY SCHOOL DISTRICT THAT'S
SPENDING LESS TIME TESTING
STUDENTS AND MORE TIME TEACHING
CREATIVITY AND COMMUNICATION.
I'M MARGARET WARNER.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU, AND GOOD NIGHT.
>> MAJOR FUNDING FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR HAS BEEN PROVIDED BY:
>> MORE THAN TWO YEARS AGO THE
PEOPLE OF B.P. MADE A COMMITMENT
TO THE GULF.
EVER DAY SINCE WE'VE WORKED HARD
TO KEEP IT.
THE BEACHES AND GULF ARE OPEN
FOR EVERYONE TO ENJOY.
WE'VE SHARED WT WHAE LEARN SO WE
CAN ALL PRODUCE ENERGY MORE
SAFELY.
B.P. IS ALSO COMMITTED TO
AMERICA.
WE SUPPORT NEARLY 250,000 JOBS
AND INVEST MORE HERE THAN
ANYWHERE ELSE.
WE'RE WORKING TO FUEL AMERICA
FOR GENERATIONS TO COME.
OUR COMMITMENT HAS NEVER BEEN
STRONGER.
>> BNSF RAILWAY.
>> AND BY THE ALFRED P. SLOAN
FOUNDATION.
SUPPORTING SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY,
AND IMPROVED ECONOMIC
PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL
LITERACY IN THE 21st CENTURY.
>> AND WITH THE ONGOING SUPPORT
AN THESE INSTITUTIONS D
FOUNDATIONS.
AND...
>> THIS PROGRAM WAS MADE
POSSIBLE BY THE CORPORATION FOR
PUBLIC BROADCASTING.
AND BY CONTRIBUTIONS TO YOUR PBS
STATION FROM VIEWERS LIKE YOU.
THANK YOU.
Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org
>>> THIS NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT
WITH SUSIE GHARIB AND TYLER
MATHISEN.
BROUGHT TO YOU BY -- OUR
DIVIDEND STOCK ADVISER GUIDES
AND HELPS GENERATE INCOME DURING
PERIOD OF LOW INTEREST RATES.
REAL MONEY HELPS YOU THINK
THROUGH IDEAS FOR INVESTING AND
TRADING STOCKS.
ACTION ALERTS PLUS IS A
CHARITABLE TRUST PORTFOLIO THAT
PROVIDES TRADE-BY-TRADE
STRATEGIES.
ONLINE, MOBILE, SOCIAL MEDIA.
WE ARE THESTREET.COM.
>> STILL GOING.
THE DOW AND THE S&P 500 CLOSE AT
ALL-TIME HIGHS AGAIN.
HEALTH INSURERS LEAD THE WAY.
>> ALL REVVED UP.
CONSUMERS PUT ANY WORRY ABOUT
THE ECONOMY IN THE REAR VIEW